# stacked_app

## Tutorial 001

<h4> This repo will be on a simple counter app built using the stacked cli link to the documentation will be provided below</h3>

<p> What is MVVM that is the first question that pops into your mind when u hear of stacked as the state management uses it's pattern to create maintainable apps.</p>
<p style = "font-size:5vw"> MVVM means three things which are Model, View, ViewModel..</p>
<p style = "font-size:5vw">But what is MVVM </p>
<p style = "font-size:5vw"> Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) is a software architectural pattern that supports the separation of the UI (which is View) from the development of the business logic or the backend logic (Model). The view model inside MVVM is the bridge responsible for data conversion in a way that behaves by the changes happening on the UI.</p>

<p> This three folders are responsible for creating a clean and maintainable codebase for medium to large companies </p>

<p style = "font-size:5vw"> Model- This is the domain model or the model which represents the data from your backend (aka data access layer). Models hold information but typically don’t handle behavior. They don’t format information or influence how data appears. The Model in the MVVM design pattern represents the actual data that will be used in application development.</p>

<p style = "font-size:5vw"> View - This is the only part of the application users actually interact with. For instance, the user presses the button, scrolls the list, edits the settings, etc., and these events are then forwarded to the view model, which then does the processing and returns the expected user response (some form of UI). It’s important to remember that the View isn’t responsible for handling the state.</p>

<p style = "font-size:5vw"> ViewModel - The ViewModel acts as an intermediate between the View and the Model so that it provides data to the UI. The ViewModel may also expose methods for helping to maintain the View’s state, update the model based on the action’s on a View, and trigger events on the View. For Flutter, we have a listener called ChangeNotifier that allows ViewModel to inform or update the View whenever the data get updated.</p>

<h3> The ViewModel has two responsibilities: </h3>

<p> it reacts to user inputs (e.g., by changing the model, initiating network requests, or routing to different screens)</p>
<p> it offers output data that the View can subscribe to</p>

<h4> There are several advantages of using MVVM:</h4>

<p style = "font-size:5vw"> Separation of Concerns: It is a design principle for separating a computer program into distinct sections such that each section addresses a separate concern. </p>
<p style = "font-size:5vw"> A concern is anything that matters in providing a solution to a problem.</p>
<p style = "font-size:5vw"> Improved testability</p>
<p style = "font-size:5vw"> Defined project structure</p>
<p style = "font-size:5vw"> Parallel development of UI</p>
<p style = "font-size:5vw"> Abstract the View, thus reducing the quantity of business logic required in the code behind it</p>

<h4> Now now, enough with the explanation of what MVVM is now to Stacked the purpose of this repo, if u want to understand what MVVM is u can check the links in the link menu </h4>

<p style = "font-size:5vw"> What is Stacked, why stacked, what makes Stacked special, well i can't explain all that but the Stacked architecture docs will be of help, my purpose is to give u a beginners guide on how to use this amazing state management </p>

<p style = "font-size:5vw"> For this repo, i will be building a simple counter app, the folders are generated by the stacked cli, which can be install on your terminal bny using this command dart pub global activate stacked_cli. </p>


<h3> Links used</h3>
<ol>
<p> <a href="https://betterprogramming.pub/how-to-use-mvvm-in-flutter-4b28b63da2ca#9fcb" target="_blank">Article on MVVM pattern</a></p>
<p> <a href="https://www.filledstacks.com/post/flutter-and-provider-architecture-using-stacked/" target="_blank">Stacked Architecture Website</a></p>
<p> <a href="https://stacked.filledstacks.com/docs/Tooling/stacked-cli" target="_blank">Stacked Architecture Cli</a> </p>
</ol>